Let's go talk about CSS.
So we're gonna go back to our project
page now, we just did the Hooks in Depth.
And now we're gonna get into something
that I'm actually pretty excited to tell
you about, which is TailwindCSS.
Let's wax poetic about the history
of CSS and React together.
It has been a journey.
In just this course, in the course
of teaching six versions of various
React courses here with Frontend Masters,
I have taught no CSS.
I've taught styled-components, I've taught
CSS modules, and I've taught Emotion.
And now I'm about to
teach you TailwindCSS.
That is to say,
there's many ways to skin this cat.
[LAUGH] And today I chose
this one because this is kind
of the direction I see a lot
of React developers going.
And the other thing is that Emotion really
hasn't updated a whole lot since I last
taught this course.
So if you want to learn about emotion-js,
just check out intermediate React V2, and
all that stuff is very current.
So you can still check out
Emotion if you'd like to.
What do I think about CSS and JavaScript?
I don't really think about it.
Kind of to answer that, I think there
are benefits, I think there are downfalls.
And I'm fine if I go on to a project,
they're using styled components and
it's there,
I will happily keep using that.
If I start a project myself today,
I'm probably just gonna use normal CSS cuz
that's what I'm used to, and
I've done it for so many years.
But honestly,
I'm really drawn into Tailwind.
I did a lot of research into
Tailwind to teach this course, and
I'm pretty enthused about it,
I was able to get a lot done very quickly.
So the thing I'll say about
Tailwind CSS is that,
one, this isn't really tied
to React all that much.
Everything I'm about to tell you,
you could probably lift and shift this
to Angular or Ember or just plain HTML and
CSS, so that's one benefit of it.
There's a bit of a starting tax, and
mentally to kinda get up to
speed of how Tailwind works,
because it's very different
from writing normal CSS.
But once you've done it,
I think you can go really fast with it.
So the thing to say about
styled components and
Emotion is they have run times, right?
So they have something that executes
in JavaScript with your React app,
which incurs some overhead, right?
Even Emotion, which is very fast and
style components don't matter.
They're very fast, they're very small,
there's still something, right?
They're still two or three kilobytes,
they still have JavaScript execution cost,
which can get hung up by the main thread.
You still have to worry about
performance with your CSS.
There's just a little bit of overhead
which is not zero overhead, right?
Tailwind has no execution layer,
it is just a style sheet.
So that is a benefit, right?
You've offloaded everything to the CSS
rendering engine, which is very,
very fast and very performant,
and has been rendering CSS for
a lot longer than most of
us have been writing code.
I'm not gonna say all of us,
but at least me,
it's been doing it a lot longer
than I've been writing code.
So with that in mind, all you have to do
with TailwindCSS is you don't have to
import any JavaScript or
anything like that.
You're just gonna add CSS classes,
that's it.
It's just adding CSS classes to get things
to look the way that you want them.
So you and I are going to re-skin
the entire adopt me pet app from
the Complete Intro to React V6
with just writing classes, and
not writing any CSS whatsoever.
We're actually going to
delete the style-sheet.
So this will be fun or
it'll be terrible, and
it's up to you to decide
how you feel about it.
This is a highly opinionated thing,
and you might hate it, and
that's totally okay.
But I want you to understand why you
hate it or love it for that matter.
So I want you to come here, and
I want you to just copy and paste this.
Well, first of all, we're gonna be
doing it with the project that we built
in Complete Intro to React V6.
So you can see here, I have a copy of it,
this is literally that 12 portals and
refs.
If you look at the project here,
let's just open it, so you can see it.
There it is.
Starting from this one here, portals and
refs, so I just have a clean copy of this.
I'm gonna run bpm install
like the rest of you, and
then we're gonna install
some more dependencies.
We're gonna start getting
into the project.
So I've done that here,
that's exactly what this project is.
Just a bit of a code tour for
you, there's babel,
there's eslint, there's prettier,
there's parcel,
we're using parcel as the bundler here,
react, react-dom and react-router-dom.
Pretty bare bones React
project in that respect.
There's prettier, eslint, babel,
modify some of these here in just a
second, and then several React files here.
So I'm gonna go ahead and run npm install.
It's gonna install all of
our dependencies here.
It'll take a second cuz parcel in
particular has a lot of dependencies.
We are using parcel 1.12.3,
which does have some
critical vulnerabilities.
So just be aware that you can
expect to see these, it's fine.
We're not sending this out to production,
it's not a big deal.
That's just the last version
that worked with this course.
By the time that you see this, there might
be a newer version that might work better.
But for now let's just stick to 1.12.3,
I know it works with that version, okay?
So if you look here in your package.json,
you have several scripts that we can run.
The one that we're gonna run
right now is this one dev,
that's gonna start out our dev process.
So we're gonna do npm run dev, and
that's gonna build our project.
It's gonna run a local host server for
us on 1, 2, 3, 4.
So you can see here, this is our project.
It's got a location, we can search for
dogs only, or let's look for rabbits.
You can see here, it'll switch what
breeds are coming in via an API,
always looked just to dogs.
There's a theme selector which
changes all the buttons on the site.
That's kind of the tour of the website.
This is my puppy, Luna, she's adorable.
Okay, so
we're gonna be working with TailwindCSS.
And like I was alluding to earlier,
we're not gonna actually
write any CSS ourselves.
We're just going to be adding CSS
classes to various different components.
And that's going to style our application
for us without writing any CSS.
This might feel a little weird and gross
to some of you, but just stick with me.
And once you kinda get over
that initial hump of [SOUND],
then hopefully we get
to the point of mm-hm.
I don't know, that's what I'm going for
here is that trajectory from
gross to maybe this is okay.
We'll see how much I succeed.